This is simply a HTML page with tables of content for all issues of
Svensk Botanisk Tidskrift (SBT), with links to the PDF versions. The
idea is that in your web browser, you do a normal text search for
whatever you're interested in (Hieracium, Västergötland, whatever),
and retrieve the PDF containing the article.

That web page is

    diva/sbt.html

It's extracted from DiVA, Digitala Vetenskapliga Arkivet, in 2020, at
which point only SBT 1907--2016 was available there.

Searching with DiVA's interface sucks (for people not used to it,
anyway), so the recommended way to search in SBT is with a Google
search. While Google is more flexible in some ways, the search
presented here is more reliable in other ways, and you can also browse
for interesting subjects.

This Git repository contains both the HTML page, and the tools used to
create it (by fetching a bibliography from DiVA and processing it).


URNs and links to PDF documents
===============================

DiVA assigns identities to the various SBT issues. The most
interesting one is the URN. E.g. "urn:nbn:se:uu:diva-375439" is SBT
110:1. You'd think there would be a corresponding URL like
http://www.diva-portal.org/375439, but there's not. Instead KB is
involved; http://urn.kb.se/resolve?urn=urn:nbn:se:uu:diva-375439
redirects to a less permanent URL at DiVA, with the correct entry.

The rest of this text is not mandatory reading; it's mostly notes I
took while trying to understand how to generate a decent index.


The DiVA search interface
=========================

A simple search on diva-portal.org for "Svensk+Botanisk+Tidskrift" and
"only results with full text in DiVA" gives an results page and 495
hits, of which 492 are of type "Collection". (The other three are
probably individual articles which happen to have their own entries.)

Changing to 250 rows per page and sort by "Issued (Oldest first), Title"
gives a permalink

    http://www.diva-portal.org/smash/resultList.jsf?query=Svensk%2BBotanisk%2BTidskrift&language=en&searchType=SIMPLE&noOfRows=250&sortOrder=dateIssued_sort_asc&sortOrder2=title_sort_asc&onlyFullText=true&sf=all&aq=%5B%5B%5D%5D&aqe=%5B%5D&aq2=%5B%5B%5D%5D&af=%5B%5D

or

    http://www.diva-portal.org/smash/resultList.jsf
    ?query=Svensk%2BBotanisk%2BTidskrift
    &language=en
    &searchType=SIMPLE
    &noOfRows=250
    &sortOrder=dateIssued_sort_asc
    &sortOrder2=title_sort_asc
    &onlyFullText=true
    &sf=all
    &aq=%5B%5B%5D%5D
    &aqe=%5B%5D
    &aq2=%5B%5B%5D%5D
    &af=%5B%5D

There's nothing preventing editing pf noOfRows, so you can easily get
all of the result on one page.

Only 1907--2016 are in the result list, although SBF says they release
the issues after two years (and although there could be entries before
the PDF is released in digital form). Perhaps this is just some work
that has been delayed.

The resulting HTML is shock full of Javascript and temporary session
IDs; there's no or little semantic about it. It turns out we don't
need to use it (see below) but let's investigate the results a bit
first. An entry might be:

    492.
    Svensk Botanisk Tidskrift
    Carlsson, Bengt
    Svensk Botanisk Tidskrift: Volym 110: Häfte 5, 2016
    2016
    Collection (editor) (Other academic)
    Abstract [sv]
    Download full text (pdf)

The 'Abstract' part is a hidden table of contents, with no internal structure.

The first link (still using 110(5) as an example) goes to a per-entry
page in the search result.  The same information is repeated there,
along with a list of identifiers:

    URN: urn:nbn:se:uu:diva-375443
    OAI: oai:DiVA.org:uu-375443
    DiVA, id: diva2:1283716

At least the URN is a permanent identifier, and KB promises to resolve
it (http://urn.kb.se/resolve?urn=urn:nbn:se:uu:diva-375443 redirects
to uu.diva-portal.org/smash/record.jsf?pid=diva2:1283716)

Bizarrely, diva2:1283716 is /not/ a permanent identifier but is
documented as an accidental artifact of their database; reindexing
will happen and will invalidate this identifier. Sounds crazy to me,
but I'm not a database person or librarian; perhaps this is how things
are done.

Since this diva2 identifier is part of the URL for the PDF, you cannot
reliably link directly to the PDF. The URLs look like:

    http://www.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1283716/FULLTEXT01.pdf
    http://uu.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1283716/FULLTEXT01.pdf

Another unfortunate aspect of the URL is that the file name part is
FULLTEXT01.pdf; makes it hard to download two items to read two
articles. Perhaps you're not supposed to save copies locally.


Create feeds
============

Anyway, there's a much better way (for our purposes) to seach. It's
called "Create feeds" (I don't know why) and you can make the result
appear as (among other things) a BibTeX or Endnote bibliography. Such
an entry can look like:

    %0 Edited Book
    %C Uppsala
    %D 2016
    %E Carlsson, Bengt
    %G Swedish
    %I Svenska Botaniska Föreningen
    %K Botany
    %K Botanik
    %P 64
    %S Svensk botanisk tidskrift
    %V 110(5)
    %T Svensk Botanisk Tidskrift : Volym 110: Häfte 5, 2016
    %U http://urn.kb.se/resolve?urn=urn:nbn:se:uu:diva-375443
    %X <p>INNEHÅLLSFÖRTECKNING: K. MARTINSSON: Vivi gjorde krigstid
       till blomstertid. S. GRUNDSTRÖM: Botaniska glimtar från Balis
       regnskogar. I. JONASSON: Möten med växter: Berget vid Ture. L. O.
       BJÖRN: Ipomoea - sötpotatisens släkte. P. TORÄNG: Från
       forskningsfronten: Besksötan tar myror till hjälp. M. MAGNUSSON:
       Botanikdagarna i Dalarna. Böcker: L. JONSELL: Gästriklands flora;
       K. HYLANDER: Mossor - en fältguide. Föreningsnytt: Ledare: S.
       GRUNDSTRÖM: Växtatlas i vardande.</p>
    %@ 0039-646X

Key information there is the urn.kb.se URL, and the table of contents
(unfortunately just an unstructured piece of HTML text, with author
names, bizarrely, in CAPITAL LETTERS, and a lot of typos). There
doesn't seem to be a bibliography over individual articles.
